You have been assigned the task of computing the sum of 1,000 four-digit
numbers as rapidly as possible. You hold in your hands a stack of 1,000
index cards, each containing a single number, and you are in charge of
1,000 expert accountants, each with a calculator. You may choose to use
the services of any number of these accountants. The accountants are
sitting at desks in a cavernous room. The desks are organized into
25 rows and 40 columns. Each accountant is able to pass cards to the four
accountants nearest her—in front, in back, to her left, and to her
right.

a. Describe a fast method of distributing cards to accountants.

b. Describe a fast method of accumulating the subtotals generated by the
active accountants into a grand total.

c. Draw a graph that plots your best estimate of the time needed to
compute the grand total as a function of the number of accountants
you choose to use.
d Add another curve to the graph you drew in part c, estimating the time
needed to compute the grand total of 10,000 numbers, given
1,..., 1,000 accountants.

e. Explain why 1,000 accountants cannot perform the task 1,000 times
faster than one accountant.

---

[//]: <> ("a. a basic approach could be to give the first 25 accountants in row 1 each 40 cards and ask them to just hold one
and pass the others to the person in front of them.
b. to be able to calculate if we are faster or slower we should assume something like this: passing a card takes 1 unit of time,
and calculating some cards together takes ")

